When using a central authentication server a client will log in to a network device.
They will be prompted for their credentials but that information is not checked against the local username
and password database but is forwarded to an authentication server such as Cisco ACARS.
Using two protocols radius and techniques.
So the username and password information is forwarded in encrypted format to the authentication server
and a response is sent back from the Tripoli server either saying that the log in is accepted or not.
That is then passed to the client so the client knows whether the authentication attempt was successful
or not.
Now radius is an open standard protocol that combines authentication and authorization into a single
process.
Once the users are authenticated they are also authorized radius users UDP for authentication and authorization.
Tack X is a Cisco proprietary protocol that separates the triple A services of authentication authorization
and accounting.
Because of that too you could separate authentication from your authorization and accounting services
tax also uses TGP rather than UDP.
Tax is often used for network devices with radius is used for uses Tech X uses port number forty nine
and radius 16 45 and 1812.
Both protocols encrypt the password but tax encrypts the entire packet.
Tack X is great for use with network devices such as Cisco routers and switches because you can authorize
a subset of CLIA commands.
In other words you can centralize which users can issue commands on devices in your network.
As an example only certain users may be allowed to reload a router so you can limit who can do what
on your network devices using tack X the Cisco ACA server makes this very easy to do.
And as mentioned allows you to centralize your authentication authorization and accounting services.